---
title: Climate Claims Assignment Part 2
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---

# Article Analysis
## *Study: The sun may have more to do with global warming than carbon dioxide*

  This article discusses the concept of climate change in its purest form: a global increase in temperature as a result of carbon dioxide. It begins with a bold claim about the sun being the largest source of global warming instead of human carbon dioxide emissions. While it recognizes that this goes against the traditional conception of global warming perpetuated by both the UN and the IPCC, the claim is supported by a peer-reviewed article. Allegedly, this new report written by a team of climate scientists and solar physicists shows that different groups of climate studies and data generate different results about the real driving force behind climate change. It suggests that the IPCC is only focussing on the specific data sets that support their claims, rather than examining all the facts. The paper does agree that one data set agrees with the IPCC’s results, but other sets do not. Data from NASA’s solar satellites was compared to global temperature data to prove that almost all global warming is directly caused by the sun instead of human emissions. According to this article, the main root of this misuse of information is simply confirmation bias. The politicians have their story about climate change and it’s working, so why would they consider all the data if it might change their stance?)

  This article, while convincingly written and generally well supported, suffers most from the lack of proper citations. None of their claims are backed up with links to reliable sources and the main point of the article, the “peer-reviewed paper produced by a team of almost two dozen scientists,” is not cited even once. Additionally, the NASA source about an increase in solar radiation is from 2003; this is hardly a reasonable source of information for a paper written about the climate in 2021. There are no sources for the different sets of published data that the UN refuses to use because they refute the IPCC, none of their quotes are cited or connected to interviews or articles or papers, and the only person involved in the study is the lead author Ronan Connolly. A google search led to Connolly’s personal website where some of his published papers are listed; the first article listed was titled “How much has the Sun influenced Northern Hemisphere temperature trends? An ongoing debate,” which I assumed to be the peer-reviewed report from the article. This paper is massive and cites over 500 papers in its references. It examines the effect of total solar irradiance on surface air temperatures in the northern hemisphere using five methods: data from rural weather stations only, all available weather stations, sea surface temperatures, tree-ring widths, and glacier length records. Each method gave a different result, but the results from the study using all weather stations—the standard method of analyzing total solar irradiation—matched the results provided by the IPCC report. This finding is not surprising, since it is the method that uses the largest sampling size of the most relevant data. Additionally, while the sun may be part of the reason that the planet is warming up, it is being AMPLIFIED by the increased presence of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere: carbon dioxide traps heat, which is why the warming is happening so rapidly in the first place. 

  This article is convincing but it suffers mostly from the lack of evidence to support its claims. If it had been able to provide proper sources for its information and back up its claims with data and graphs it would have been even more convincing, but unfortunately it fell flat.
